# AI_Personal_Voice_Assistant_Using_Python

A project to build an AI voice assistant using Python . The Voice assistant interacts with the humans to perform basic tasks.


### About Elsa :

Elsa is an AI personal voice assistant service built using Pychram. It can understand human speech and perform basic task designed by the client.

When the user specify the appropriate trigger words , The Elsa gets activated and executes the user commands.


Elsa AI Voice assistant:"Loading your AI personal assistant Elsa
                          Hello, Good Morning" (Greets the user according to time)
                          "Tell me how can I help you now?"
                          "Listening..."



### The implemented Voice assistant can perform the following tasks:


1. Opens a wepage : Youtube , G-Mail , Google Chrome , StackOverflow 
	
	
		Human : ...Open Youtube...
		
		
2. Predicts time 
	
	
		Human : ...Time...
		
		
3. Fetch Top headlines from BBC News
	
         
		Human:  ...News...
		
		
4. Searches data from Google
	
   		
		Human:  ...open google...
		
		
5. Ask geographical and computational questions
	
  	 	
		Human:  ...ask...
            What is the capital of California? / what is Sin 90?
		
		
6. Predict Weather of different Cities
   		
	
		Human:  What is the weather likely now?
    Elsa:   What's the city name?
    Human:  Lebanon
    
    
 7. Translate any statement from English to any other Language
   		
	
		Human:  ...translate...
    Elsa:   What do you want to translate?
    Human:  Nice to meet you
    Elsa:   What is the translation language?
    Human:  Arabic
    
    
 8. Find any location
   		
	
		Human:  ...location...
    Elsa:   What's the city name?
    Human:  Lebanon
    Elsa:   User asked to Locate Lebanon...
		
	
9. Abstarct necessary information from wikipedia
	
   		
		Human: Who is Bill Gates according to Wikipedia
		
		
   The voice assistant abstarcts first 3 lines of wikipedia and gives the information to the user.
	
	
10. Ask Elsa about what task it can perform and who created it
	
   		
	  	Human: Who created you? / What can you do
		
		
11. Turn off your pc when required
   		

   		 Human: shutdown system


12. Empty your Desktop's recycle bin
   		

   		 Human: Empty recycle bin


13. Lock your screen when required
   		

   		 Human: lock window
       
       
 14. Turn off
   		

   		 Human: goodbye/ok bye/stop
       Elsa:  your personal assistant Elsa is shutting down, Good bye

### Libraries required to be installed using Pip Command:
	
	1.ctypes
	
	2.speech_recognition 
	
	3.Pyttsx3
	
	4.wikipedia
	
	5.time
	
  6.winshell
  
	7.Wolframalpha
  
  8.requests
  
  9.playsound
  
  10.gTTS
  
  11.googletrans


### In-Built libraries required to be imported:

	1.os
	
	2.datetime
	
	3.web browser
	
	4.subprocess


Elsa uses Third party API's to predict weather in different cities and to ask computational and geographical questions. 
Free API keys can be generated by creating an account in the following applications.  
	
	Open Weather Map - To forecast weather
	
	WolframAlpha - To answer questions



Happy reading:)



